---
title: Doc Maintenance
---

## Process for contributing to the docs

Here is how you can contribute to the `fastai` documentation in just 4 steps.

### Step 1. Create a `fastai` git branch

The process of creating a branch (with a fork), including a program that will do it for you in one step, and submitting the PR is explained in details in [How to Make a Pull Request (PR)](/dev/git.html#how-to-make-a-pull-request-pr)

### Step 2. Setup

From the fastai repo or your forked branch checkout folder, install the required developer modules:

```bash
pip install -e ".[dev]"
```

If you're on Windows, you also need to convert the Unix symlink between `docs_src\imgs` and `docs\imgs`. You will need to (1) remove `docs_src\imgs`, (2) execute `cmd.exe` as administrator, and (3) finally, in the `docs_src` folder, execute:

```bash
cd docs_src
mklink /d imgs ..\docs\imgs
```

If you followed the fastai-specific instructions explained [here](/dev/git.html#how-to-make-a-pull-request-pr), you're all set. If you made a PR branch in some other way, it's crucial that you execute:

```bash
tools/run-after-git-clone  # or python tools\run-after-git-clone on windows
```

in that branch once. You can read more about it [here](/dev/develop.html#things-to-run-after-git-clone).

### Step 3. Edit the documents

There are two types of source files: `*ipynb` and `*md` files.

1. `*ipynb` notebook files, located under the directory `docs_src`, are the sources for most of the `*html` files on [docs.fast.ai](https://docs.fast.ai/). For example, [https://docs.fast.ai/data_block.html](/data_block.html) is generated from the [docs_src/data_block.ipynb](https://github.com/fastai/fastai/blob/master/docs_src/data_block.ipynb).

   While you can use a normal editor for editing this type of file, it's difficult to edit `json`-format files and it's very easy to break them. Instead, edit `*ipynb` files by opening them in your Jupyter Notebook environment.

   If you were using a text editor to make changes, when you are done working on a notebook improvement, please make sure to validate the notebook's format by simply loading it in Jupyter Notebook.

   When you finish editing a notebook, remember to save it before doing `git commit`!

   You don't need to convert your work to HTML: we will do it after your PR is accepted and merged.

   **Note**: JupyterLab is currently not supported. If you missed this warning and have already edited `.ipynb` files in JupyterLab, you can [fix them](/dev/develop.html#unstripped-notebook-repair).

2. `*md` text files, located at `docs/*.md` and `docs/*/*.md` require no Jupyter environment - i.e. they contain plain text formatted using the `markdown` format. Note, that unlike `*ipynb`, these are located in the `docs` directory. For example,  [https://docs.fast.ai/troubleshoot.html](/troubleshoot.html)'s source is [docs/troubleshoot.md](https://github.com/fastai/fastai/blob/master/docs/troubleshoot.md).

   Edit these files in your editor. To validate the Markdown, use [grip](https://github.com/joeyespo/grip) or any other Markdown rendering/validating tool of your liking.

**Do not edit the `docs/*html` files** because they are autogenerated. If you change them, your changes will get overwritten. We autogenerate the docs about once a day, so your change will become visible on docs.fast.ai then.

### Step 4. Submit a PR with your changes

See [Submit Your PR](/dev/git.html#step-7-submit-your-pr).

**You're done**. You don't need to do anything more at this point, other than checking on the status of your PR and if everything is good it'll be merged. If there are some issues with it, you may be requested to make some changes, which you just commit and push like your initial commit. The PR will get automatically updated with your new changes.

There is also a [visual step-by-step demo](https://github.com/EmbraceLife/fastai_treasures/blob/master/How-To-Docsrc-PR.md) of how Daniel did his first PR that improved fastai documentation.

Down the road, once you get comfortable submitting documentation PRs, you can explore the rest of the document, but leave it for later, so you don't get confused.


### How the docs are created - a Visual diagram

To help you understand better the documentation creation process, here is a diagram of stages each type of a document goes through after it has been edited and before the changes appear on the website:

```txt
1. edit    2. tools/build-docs  3. jekyll (githubpages)
     |            |                   |
docs_src/*.ipynb ----> docs/*.html -----> docs.fast.ai/*html
docs/*.md ------------------------------> docs.fast.ai/*html
```

At the end of stages 1 and 2 `git commit` and `git push` are needed, the 3rd stage happens automatically. `*md` files require no stage 2.

After your PR is merged, we rebuild the docs (using `tools/build-docs`) and then we commit/push the rebuilt docs. Then, GitHub Pages usually updates the website automatically within a few minutes. Therefore, if your changes aren't visible on the website, despite your PR being merged, it's because the second stage hasn't been done. It happens once a day or so, so please be patient.

If you find this section's instructions unclear or difficult to follow, please, kindly let us know in this [thread](https://forums.fast.ai/t/documentation-improvements/32550), so that we could improve them.

The rest of this document goes more in depth about all the documentation generation functionalities. You don't need to read or understand any of it to make a successful contribution to the existing documents. If you just want to add some text or correct a typo, make a PR with the notebook changed, and we'll take care of the rest.

## Syncing added/updated API with docs

If you're just improving the documentation prose, and not the API documentation, just edit directly the desired source files from `docs_src/*.ipynb`, `docs/*.md` and `docs/dev/*.md`. The following instructions are only needed if you tweak the API and need to make those changes visible/up-to-date in the documentation files.

The bulk of the process and setup are explained in [gen_doc.gen_notebooks](/gen_doc.gen_notebooks.html), but its primarily purpose is for doing the heavy lifting of documenting new modules. Here you will find the minimal instructions needed to do a simple synchronization of newly added function/classes or their updates for `fastai` modules that already have corresponding documentation documents.

### Prerequisites

Install the prerequisites:

```bash
pip install -e ".[dev]"
```

Install the `Hide Input` Jupyter Notebook extension:

1. start `jupyter notebook`
2. go to `http://localhost:8888/nbextensions`
3. enable the `Hide Input` extension

### Initial Synchronization

Let's say we want to do some changes to the docs for `data_block.py`:

First, run an update to sync any API changes that happened before your work, but not synchronized with the docs. The code is usually ahead of the docs, and the docs don't get updated all the time.

```bash
tools/build-docs --update-nb-links  docs_src/data_block.ipynb
```

Assuming the build was successful, commit the changes.

While you don't have to do this first, it's very helpful, since now when you re-run the build you will be able to see only the changes you introduced and not potentially hundreds of changes that have nothing to do with your modifications.

Now, you can start working on the docstrings of the new or updated functions and classes, and extra prose that you'd like to add to the documentation.

### Adding a new function/class

Say you added a method to `data_block.py`:

```python
def foobar(self, times:int=1)->'str':
    "This functions returns FooBar * times"
    return "FooBar" * times
```

While the docstring can be of any length, the fastai coding style requests that it should be no longer than 120 char long.

Any extra notes should be placed inside the corresponding entry in `.ipynb` and if it's really important some perhaps as comments in the `.py`, following the docstring.

Now run:

```bash
tools/build-docs --document-new-fns docs_src/data_block.ipynb
```

and if you now load `docs_src/data_block.ipynb` in Jupyter Notebook and scroll down to the very end of the notebook, you will find a new method entry was added under the header `New Methods - Please document or move to the undocumented section`.

Take that cell and move it up to where it belongs in the document---most likely in the same position it's found in the source code `.py` file. Note that if you select this cell and hit `Toggle cell input display` (the `Hide Input` extension) in the menu, you will see something like:

```python
show_doc(LabelLists.foobar)
```

If something is not displayed correctly, lookup the [show_doc](/gen_doc.nbdoc.html#show_doc) function, where you can adjust the arguments to make things look right. For example, you can pass `full_name='foobar'` argument to adjust a function name (usually helpful with functions that start with `_`, or you can pass `title_level=3` if you want it to show up at a header level 3.

When you're done tweaking the `show_doc(...)` input for that entry, remember to hit again the `Toggle cell input display` button to make it invisible, so that in the final docs site it's not displayed but the functionality generated by it does.

If you need to add any extra comments, example or instructions, create one or more cells and add what you need (markup and code if need be).

When satisfied, first make sure to save the notebook (since it auto-saves only every few minutes), and then convert this notebook into html with:

```bash
tools/build-docs docs_src/data_block.ipynb
```

It can be a good idea to run `git diff` to check your changes, but it might be tricky since the output format is not very human-friendly. But it'll show you if you messed something up - e.g. you deleted something unintentionally.

Finally, commit the modified `.ipynb` and the corresponding `.html` file:

```bash
git commit docs_src/data_block.ipynb docs/data_block.html
```

and then push the changes into the repo.

Several minutes after the push, you will see the updated documents at [https://docs.fast.ai/data_block.html](https://docs.fast.ai/data_block.html).

### Updating an existing function/class

To take care of updating any changes in the API's arguments and docstrings that are already in the API docs, execute the following command. (We are using `data_block` as an example.)

```bash
tools/build-docs --update-nb-links docs_src/data_block.ipynb
```

Then, as in the previous section, check the diff, commit, and push.

### Creating a new documentation notebook from existing module

If a `fastai.*` Python module already exists, but there is no associated documentation notebook (`docs_src/*.ipynb`), you can auto-generate one by running the following:

```bash
tools/build-docs fastai.subpackage.module
```

This will create a skeleton documentation notebook - `docs_src/subpackage.module.ipynb`. It will populate with all the module methods. These will need to be documented.

To change the default header levels (e.g. h3 or h2 instead of h2), adjust them with an explicit `title_level` argument in the corresponding `show_doc()` entry. For example:

```
show_doc(...., title_level=4)
```
See the documentation for [show_doc](/gen_doc.nbdoc.html#show_doc) for more options.

### Borked rendering

If after `git pull` you load, e.g. `docs_src/data_block.ipynb` in Jupyter Notebook and you get a bunch of cryptic entries like:

```python
<IPython.core.display.Markdown object>
<IPython.core.display.Markdown object>
<IPython.core.display.Markdown object>
```

instead of the API documentation entries, executing:

```bash
tools/build-docs --update-nb-links docs_src/data_block.ipynb
```

and then reloading the notebook fixes the problem.

## Building the documentation website

The https://docs.fast.ai website is comprised from documentation notebooks converted to `.html`, `.md` files, jekyll metadata, jekyll templates (including the sidebar).

* `.md` files are automatically converted by GitHub Pages (requires no extra action)
* the sidebar and other jekyll templates under `docs/_data/` are automatically deployed by GitHub Pages (requires no extra action)
* changes in jekyll metadata require a rebuild of the affected notebooks
* changes in `.ipynb` nbs require a rebuild of the affected notebooks

### Updating sidebar

1. edit `docs_src/sidebar/sidebar_data.py`
2. `python tools/make_sidebar.py`
3. check `docs/_data/sidebars/home_sidebar.yml`
4. `git commit docs_src/sidebar/sidebar_data.py docs/_data/sidebars/home_sidebar.yml`

[jekyll sidebar documentation](https://idratherbewriting.com/documentation-theme-jekyll/#configure-the-sidebar).

### Updating notebook metadata

In order to pass the right settings to the website version of the `docs`, each notebook has a custom entry which if you look at the source code, looks like:

```json
 "metadata": {
  "jekyll": {
   "keywords": "fastai",
   "toc": "false",
   "title": "Welcome to fastai"
  },
  [...]
```

Do not edit this entry manually, or your changes will be overwritten in the next metadata update.

The only correct way to change any notebook's metadata is by opening `docs_src/jekyll_metadata.ipynb`, finding the notebook you want to change the metadata for, changing it, and running the notebook, then saving and committing it and the resulting changes.

### Updating notebooks

Use this section only when you have added a new function that you want to document, or modified an existing function.

Here is how to build/update the documentation notebooks to reflect changes in the library.

For most cases, run the full doc sync (which also updates the [test registry](dev/test.html#test-registry)):

```bash
make docs
```

To update only the modified notebooks under `docs_src` run:

```bash
python tools/build-docs
```

To update specific `*ipynb` nbs:

```bash
python tools/build-docs docs_src/notebook1.ipynb docs_src/notebook2.ipynb ...
```

To update specific `fastai.*` module:

```bash
python tools/build-docs fastai.subpackage1.module1 fastai.subpackage2.module2 ...
```

To force a rebuild of all notebooks and not just the modified ones, use the `-f` option.

```bash
python tools/build-docs -f
```

To scan a module and add any new module functions to documentation notebook:

```bash
python tools/build-docs --document-new-fns
```

To automatically append new fastai methods to their corresponding documentation notebook:

```bash
python tools/build-docs --update-nb-links
```

Use the `-h` for more options.

Alternatively, [`update_notebooks`](/gen_doc.gen_notebooks.html#update_notebooks) can be run from the notebook.

To update all notebooks under `docs_src` run:

```python
update_notebooks('.')
```

To update specific python file only:

```python
update_notebooks('gen_doc.gen_notebooks.ipynb', update_nb=True)
```

`update_nb=True` inserts newly added module methods into the docs that haven't already been documented.

Alternatively, you can update a specific module:

```python
update_notebooks('fastai.gen_doc.gen_notebooks', dest_path='fastai/docs_src')
```

### Updating html only

If you are not synchronizing the code base with its documentation, but made some manual changes to the documentation notebooks, then you don't need to update the notebooks, but just convert them to `.html`:

To convert `docs_src/*ipynb` to `docs/*html`:

* only the modified `*ipynb`:

```bash
python tools/build-docs -l
```

* specific `*ipynb`s:

```bash
python tools/build-docs -l docs_src/notebook1.ipynb docs_src/notebook2.ipynb ...
```

* force to rebuild all `*ipynb`s:

```bash
python tools/build-docs -fl
```


## Links and anchors

### Validate links and anchors

After you commit doc changes please validate that all the links and `#anchors` are correct.

If it's the first time you are about to run the link checker, install the [prerequisites](https://github.com/fastai/fastai/blob/master/tools/checklink/README.md) first.

After committing the new changes, first, wait a few minutes for GitHub Pages to sync, otherwise you'll be testing an outdated live site.

Then, do:

```bash
cd tools/checklink
./checklink-docs.sh
```

The script will be silent and only report problems as it finds them.

Remember, that it's testing the live website, so if you detect problems and make any changes, remember to first commit the changes and wait a few minutes before re-testing.

You can also test the site locally before committing your changes, please see: [README](https://github.com/fastai/fastai/blob/master/tools/checklink/README.md).

To test the course-v3.fast.ai site, do:

```bash
./checklink-course-v3.sh
```

## Working with Markdown

### Preview

If you work on Markdown (.md) files, it helps to validate that the layout is not broken. [grip](https://github.com/joeyespo/grip) seems to work quite well for this purpose. To install it, grip, run

```bash
pip install grip
```

Here is an example of how to use grip:

```bash
grip -b docs/dev/release.md
```

It will open a browser with the Markdown rendered as HTML. It uses the GitHub API, so this is exactly how it'll look on GitHub once you commit it. And here is a handy alias:

```bash
alias grip='grip -b'
```

so you don't need to remember the flag.

### Markdown Tips

* If you use numbered items and their number goes beyond 9 you must switch to 4-whitespace chars indentation for the paragraphs belonging to each item. Under 9 or with \* you need 3-whitespace chars as a leading indentation.
* When building tables make sure to use `--|--` and not `--+--` to separate the headers: GitHub will not render it properly otherwise.

## Testing site locally

Install prerequisites:

* Debian/Ubuntu:

   ```bash
   sudo apt install ruby-bundler
   ```

   When running this one it will ask for your user's password (basically running a sudo operation):

   ```bash
   bundle install jekyll
   ```

* Mac OS:

   ```
   gem install bundler
   cd docs
   bundle install
   ```

Start the website:

```bash
cd docs
bundle exec jekyll serve
```

it will tell you which localhost url to go to see the site.


## Cleanups

Check whether we have any `doc/*html` orphans that no longer have `docs_src/*ipynb` source files:

```bash
perl -le 'm#docs/(.*?)\.html# && !-e "docs_src/$1.ipynb" && print for @ARGV' docs/*html
```

and remove them from git.
